what's up guys Jays $0.02 here and I'm
talking to the new guy the guy who just
built his first tower and he doesn't
know what to do next so we're gonna take
the assumption that you guys have built
your tower it turns on and everything
and now you're like now do I do
I've got no DVD Drive how the heck do I
install windows I mean drivers I don't
know what to do next everyone talks
about building the tower very few people
ever talk about the hardest part for
some people which is just figuring out
how to get everything up and running so
today we're gonna try and cover that
topic and if you are a veteran maybe you
have some useful ways of making what I'm
about to show you even more efficient so
watch this video comment down below with
your best tips and tricks and let's get
started
[Music]
drop your temperatures and get maximum
performance from your processor with
Corsairs new a 500 air cooler intuitive
sliding lock fan mount system allows for
variable mounting height providing the
largest range of RAM compatibility and
ease of installation while the ML 120
fans provide high static pressure at low
volume levels to learn more about the
all new a 500 from Corsair click the
link in the description below so as a
couple things you're gonna need for this
we're gonna need art windows install
media now I'm not gonna talk to you
about how to make that today because
it's believe it or not it's not enough
content to make its own video and it's
really really simple so if you just go
to Google on another machine you'll need
a laptop or something if you don't have
the actual windows install media this is
so out of date this would need several
hours worth of updates depending on your
internet speed so what we do is we
actually install or create new install
media's based on the latest versions of
Windows now that's really simple if you
go to Google and just look up Windows
install media you'll find the tool that
you can download it's only a couple of
clicks and then it will be a much more
recent version of Windows and if you buy
one off of a shelf so get yourself a USB
stick that's got at least eight
gigabytes and then go through the
tutorial process so now that you have
your install media we're gonna go ahead
and stick it into our system and we are
assuming now that this is a completely
fresh install you're not taking any hard
drives from another system that have a
Windows install on them if you are then
you're gonna want to unplug it from your
drive before we move forward we'll talk
about that in a sec we're gonna boot up
our system where we get into our BIOS so
to get into BIOS you're just going to
mash a delete key
on this particular bias if we scroll
down to the bottom right here we get
easy-mode if we click on that this is
kind of a dashboard a snapshot of
everything happening inside of our
system right here so if we look there's
a 3,800 x8 core here are both of our
memory sticks we wanna make sure they're
all showing up they are and they are
running up their base clock we're not
going to overclock that yet we're not
going to enable do CP or any of the XMP
profiles or any of that sort of stuff
because we want our system to be as
stable as possible during the install we
can go and play around with all that
stuff later to get our maximum
advertised speeds so just leave
everything out of the box don't play
with the overclock buttons don't play
with the fan curves nothing just let it
go
Bielsa the other thing we're looking for
here is to make sure that all of our
drives are showing up so you can see we
have one drive showing up under SATA
this particular system has one SATA
drive and one nvme drive so if you don't
see both your drives there because
you're using an nvme don't freak out
that usually shows up in a different
place we can also see that we've got our
core server Voyager Mini 3.0 0 0 0 a
partition 1 that is this guy right here
that's got our Windows install media on
it that is what we are going to be
actually installing to or from correct
we're installing to this system from
this the other thing we want to make
sure though is that our actual nvme
drive is showing up and then to do that
in this particular BIOS it's kind of
weird we got to go back to standard mode
go over to peripherals go down to nvme
and there it is right there samsung 970
Evo plus 1 terabyte so what we're gonna
do now just because we know that they
are all showing up is we are going to
unplug the power going to our SATA drive
this is ok to do while this the drive is
active in BIOS probably freak a lot of
people out right there but that's ok it
still shows because it saw it when it
initialized but we don't want that we
want to go into a boot override and this
again is gonna be dependent completely
on your particular motherboard we're
telling our BIOS boot to this if this
isn't a bootable then go to this and
that's the drive we just unplugged we
don't want it to go to that one and the
reason why we're doing that
this just gives us the best opportunity
to have a nice clean fresh install on
the drive we want to be installed on
sometimes the drives are kind of
difficult to distinguish in the actual
windows install tool and we'll show you
that where if the only drive we have
connected at that point is the one we
want to install to then we know we're
not going to accidentally format and
override on a backup hard drive maybe
you take a hard drive out of another
system that has all your game files and
stuff on it pictures if that's plugged
in and you accidentally install to it
guess what it wipes it and then you lose
all that data technically you lose all
that data it's easier to get back if
you're a more advanced user but that's
obviously not the point today's video so
with that we're gonna go ahead and just
f10 save configuration and exit it's
gonna restart to our windows media I
know a lot of people were like but
where's the DVD drive I like DVDs I'm
more comfortable DVD trust me this is
much much faster than a spinning Drive
are spinning optical ever was in terms
of install speeds this is the days of
waiting an hour for all your files to
copy are long gone so what you're gonna
do now is just going to click Next
install now this is where you put in
your key I'm not gonna show you guys my
key you need to use your own key however
you got that key is up to you I don't
particularly care so once you put in
your install key this is the next screen
you get you've got to accept the terms
and license blah blah blah so we're not
upgrading we are doing a custom install
which it's funny that's something that
should say clean install it says custom
installed windows only advanced so now
you can see only the drive we want is
showing if you had three or four drives
and you didn't unplug all of them you
would have more than one showing right
there so because this is the drive I
want to install too this is the nvme and
you can see now why we unplug our drive
because it's not labeled doesn't show a
name it just says drive zero unallocated
space in an MB drive one drive to drive
three and that there are any partitions
you would see drive zero partition one
drive zero petition do with your eyes so
it can get confusing to someone that's
not used to dealing with partitions and
multiple drives so since that's the only
drive showing up we can click Next
if this was existing I had existing data
that you just want wipes because it's
coming from another drive then what you
could do if they had multiple partitions
is you would click each partition and
hit delete and then you can hit format
if you needed to if it had data on there
otherwise since this is a clean
we're just gonna go ahead and hit next
now that it's getting files ready for
installation this is the part that is
super fast now versus what it used to be
now here's the other thing - there's a
neat little trick people will tell you
you can't install Windows anymore in an
offline account that's stupid you need a
Windows account the way you do it is you
don't have the internet connected at the
time of install so if you were to plug
in right now your Ethernet cable it
would automatically go online and say
hey we're connected
you need a Windows account to move
forward which is something that we hate
around here we do not want to force
ourselves into needing online Windows
accounts so by having no internet
connected then it makes it where we can
actually create just a standard Windows
user account that's not connected to
Microsoft comm so just restart it on its
own one of two things are gonna happen
it's either gonna restart the Windows
installation depending on whether or not
the BIOS is smart enough to recognize
hey there's an OS on this hard drive now
let's move forward on that if it brings
up the screen again where it's like
accept the EULA to move forward bla bla
bla then what you would do is you would
unplug the drive and restart the system
alright so now that I see that right
this screen we are booted off of the
hard drive or the SSD that we've
installed and we can take the install
media and throw that aside now we're in
the UK so we're gonna go ahead and do
the United Kingdom alright so obviously
choose your region here we're not going
into the internet so we're gonna say I
don't have the Internet at which point
Microsoft play going that's kind of
weird so what we're gonna not do is
connect now because now is gonna do
everything I can to say hey plug in your
cable please we won't spy on you I swear
we won't force you to go online to use
Windows we promise liars
so we're gonna continue with limited
setup don't let that fool you what that
means is it's not gonna automatically
install the garbage you don't want
anyway okay who's going to use this PC
the Internet is gonna use this PC you
guys password one one create security
questions what was your first pet's name
fail what's the name of the city where
you were born Mars
what's your childhood nickname fatty all
right do more across devices no I do not
want it to automatically sync my devices
because last time I did that it wiped
one of my other devices because what is
so freakin smart Phil remembers that J
was not a happy J that day so no we're
not gonna sync get help for me digital
assistant we're gonna get that a big
yeah now this is all the spyware that
Windows wants to automatically install
and they want your permission to do it
so we're gonna give them the big it's
kind of finishing its install in the
background it's getting a bunch of
things ready for you
whatever that means we're not going to
the Internet now here's the thing most
of the drivers and stuff you need for
your system to operate properly will
work with just the basic drivers that
Windows has pre-configured inside of it
it knows this is an AMD system it's
gonna automatically install just the
basic AMD chipset drivers the ethernet
Sande most of these now are usually one
of three different types intel real tech
or the third one is but there's basic
drivers to make all this stuff work out
of the box same thing with your video
drivers it's gonna install a basic VGA
driver it might install an old
out-of-date Nvidia driver if you
connected to say the Internet and then
it will install the DCH driver which we
don't particularly like around here so
we're gonna just let do its thing get us
to the desktop and we'll show you what
to do next
so now we're at the Windows desktop from
the very first time you can see our
Audio Driver it's like hey you don't
have an audio driver what the heck and
it's funny if you click on that it's
trying to detect problems but Windows is
actually stupid enough to where it's
like oh look which of these drives
drivers do you want to troubleshoot none
of them because we will handle all of
that in a moment now obviously we have
that drive that we disconnected so what
we're gonna do right now is because
believe it or not say that is hot
swappable I'm gonna just plug that SATA
back in with Windows running and it may
or may not automatically detect the
drive our drive is not even is not
showing up and this is the part that
freaks a lot of people out and because
it's a brand new drive with no partition
or no format type on there what we're
gonna do right here is we are gonna
click the little Windows Start button on
the very bottom left and we're not
connected
Internet yet and that's perfectly fine
we're gonna type in disk management and
it will start to show up create in
format hard disk partition click on this
guy and it detected our drive now see
this is the part that makes me just so
upset with Microsoft is that it knows
this why couldn't it just suddenly do
this on its own why can't it
automatically be like new drive detected
let's set it up no you've got to go
looking for disk management so GPT
should already be selected if that's if
it's not selected disk 0 that's fine so
you see that this is black that means
right now it is a non usable drive so
here are the partitions that setup and
we installed Windows it's got the efi
system or its own 100 megabyte partition
we've got the rest of the boot drive
right here and here's our recovery drive
that's all normal so what you're gonna
do right here you're gonna right-click
new simple volume click next this is
where you can actually set the volume
size we're not gonna worry about
splitting it into multiple drives click
Next make sure it has a drive letter
because this is the part where sometimes
it won't do a drive letter let's just
make sure it has a drive letter hit next
you can name the drive here if you want
so we'll call it a Gans X filesystem
leave it as NTFS that's fine and then
allocation unit size default all that's
fine and it will automatically perform a
quick format so if we hit next and
finish now our drive will show up and
there it is
right there so that's a really common
problem people have like where my drives
showing up there they are
and we even has the name that if you
don't like the name you can always go in
here and just rename it and be like
right now what we're gonna do is we are
going to go ahead and connect this guy
to the Internet and this is the part
where the gauntlet starts and what I
mean by that is as soon as I plug this
in a couple things are gonna happen what
its gonna go oh my god you're not
activated it's also gonna then start
trying to install the drivers that are
missing like the audio driver that you
saw it's gonna automatically install a
video driver the video driver that's
going to install it's going to more than
likely be out of date another way that
you can also sort of expedite this is
click a little Windows Start key the
search again
look up update so as you can see we had
a lot of updates that this was missing
here some security of drivers stuff it's
seeing that we need to install chipset
drivers for AMD there's a 1903 update
malicious software removal tool
framework driver so just let all of this
go it's like I said it's gonna probably
download some out-of-date stuff
specifically the video card driver but
once this is all done and it goes
through its restarts then we'll talk
about what to do next now it's important
in my opinion to install these updates
before drivers reason for that is
depending on the version of Windows that
you're on some drivers require certain
versions of Windows to unlock all of its
features AMD Rison for instance requires
a certain version of window and newer to
get a lot of the rise in CPU sea state
and you know performance activity and
the performance settings and all of that
to be active in the in the driver or in
the operating system same thing with the
Nvidia graphics card if you're running
an RT X graphics card in this case it's
a twenty eighty super if you need a
certain version of Windows and a certain
driver version that you can't get unless
you're on the right version of Windows
to enable RT X features we dealt with
that with battlefield 5 we're like why
are we not getting DX our option to show
up well it's because we were on too old
of a version of Windows that was
required to get the latest driver that
had it all enabled now you're gonna
notice there's gonna be several restarts
during this process some of these need
to happen in certain orders for them to
finish the install so what will happen
is it will restart and then it will go
back to the next portion of the install
and a lot of this will happen in the
background without you even knowing it
so that's why I like to tell people to
go here automatically and visually look
at it to see what's happening because
you might be doing things in the
background you're like what is happening
my systems wants to restart or this
isn't working well it's because this is
all happening in the background so the
very first thing you should do quite
honestly is your updates well see the
driver the windows video drivers yeah I
went to the fourth key for you so if we
look here we are on version four three
two zero zero but if we go to the two in
videos website you'll see the latest
driver is actually four four 2.19
yeah four three two zero zero isn't even
on the most recent driver like as far
back as November of 2019 so we'll go
ahead and download the latest driver as
well
download this save it and we'll install
that ourselves after everything else is
done so now that it's kind of finished
installing the framework for the 1903
update it wants a restart now now you
can schedule a restart for later if
you're still installing like a game or
something you're trying to multitask but
it gives us the option to manually
restart it which we're gonna have it do
now and then those other ones that said
pending install or restart they should
all automatically install then the list
will update with whatever updates are
left so you want to work your way
through the list until at the end it
says you are up to date once it says
that then we can move on to some of the
fun stuff which is getting a little bit
more speed and just some general tips
and tricks to make your system run
better so we went ahead and did the
optional update for the main 19:03 so
they're the main updates are optional
because of their size but we decided we
want to go ahead and get this system
completely up to date so with that came
other smaller updates that went along
with that big one so once they're all
done then it will say you're up to date
all right so it only took about 20
minutes or so we are fully up to date
now we're lucky because we have fast 2
Gigabit Ethernet here just obviously
will depend on your internet speed so
we're fully up to date so remember that
driver that we downloaded from Nvidia
we're gonna go ahead and double click
that and we are going to run the
installer for for 4 2.19 now one of the
things we're gonna do when we install
this is we're gonna do a clean install
we want it to instead of installing the
differences over top of the old driver
we just want it to completely remove the
old driver and install a new one from
scratch a lot of weird computer issues
can happen from installers installing on
top of old versions over and over and
over again as time goes on so one of the
best practices that I always do to keep
things as fresh as possible yeah fresh
is so fresh bro isn't fresh well and
also will default to wanting to install
the driver and GeForce experience I
don't personally use GeForce experience
so I installed just the driver agree and
continue custom next this is where you
can then click perform clean install and
you can just leave all the defaults
selected it unselect GeForce experience
that's the only difference between the
old oh that click and or the other radio
button in that and the one we chose
perform clean installation hit next no
it might do it a restart during this
sometimes with the clean install it will
restart the system some
time's it won't all right now you want
to get the most speed out of your in
video graphics card here's what we're
gonna do click on manage 3d settings on
the right you're gonna come down here to
where it says we have a g-sync panel so
that's automatic power management mode
optimal power we're gonna set that to
prefer maximum performance now I do this
which is what its gonna make this the
GPU nut idle down all the way it will
introduce a little bit more heat to your
GPU but this is what gives us better
scores and our benchmarks and stuff most
people won't notice this but this is
what I do and then the other thing we do
is we come down here to texture
filtering quality and I set that to
high-performance I've never noticed a
difference between the texture quality
between the two but I have noticed a
performance difference in terms of how
much faster the graphics card is so
since everyone's not using anybody a
graphics card and some people are using
AMD and the control panels are different
I'll show you how to set your maximum
refresh rate if you're using a panel
that's higher than 60fps or even if you
are using 60fps panel it might say 59
I'll show you how to set your max
refresh rate so I'm the desktop anywhere
just right-click go to display settings
go right down here to advanced display
settings and you can see here your
resolution and your scaling and all that
so make sure this is set to your max
resolution of your panel go to advanced
display of settings display adapter
properties for display one it's at the
bottom then click monitor now you can
see we're set to 59 Hertz like I just
said but this panel is capable of 144 so
we're gonna go ahead and click that okay
it apply it's gonna restart the panel
keep changes and now everything you
can't see on this video because you're
only seeing it in 30th yes but we now
have 144 Hertz and we are going to do
shift restart this is gonna bring us up
to our restart menu which will allow us
to tell the system to reboot right into
the UEFI BIOS so instead of engines that
they're in mash delete you can just say
troubleshoot Advanced Options UEFI
firmware settings and then restart so
what that says is just go to the BIOS of
your motherboard without having to push
anything it'll take us there all right
so we're not gonna talk about
overclocking because that's very CPU
dependent
the board dependent too many factors but
what I am gonna show you is how to get
the maximum speed in the memory that you
paid for so if we look over here in the
BIOS you can see our memories running at
21:30 9.47 that's technically 2133 but
we want to get the speed that we paid
for now that's the base rate of the
memory of which it's running the base
clock so if we come over here to where
the system is it's system MIT advanced
memory settings this is where we can
actually come in here and change the
profile now you see extreme memory
profile XMP is disabled that's gonna be
called two different things
XMP it refers to extreme memory
performance that is specific to Intel
but it just basically says that the
advertised speeds of the dims are what
that setting is going to set them to you
might also see do see P which is memory
that's specific to AMD we've found
though is that X and P still works on
AMD without any sort of problem so if
you go into your BIOS oh you just enable
you can see now it sets it to 3,200 mega
Hertz that's what it was that well
that's what this was and not 34 or 36 so
we were at 21 33 it's now going to go to
3,200 so just f10 save and exit or
whatever your particular bios is set to
now our memory is going to run quite a
bit faster with Rison it definitely
makes a difference on compute tasks and
you know when you're doing general
computing in even gaming so that now
gets us our memory speed back up to what
we paid for that's a step a lot of
people forget to do or don't even know
about they just think oh I bought this
3400 stick of RAM and I stuck it in and
that's what it's running at but it's not
unless you go in and actually set it to
that but we don't do any of that because
in rare instances sometimes the memory
will at that speed with a particular CPU
setup will start to give you weird blue
screen crashes and stuff and that's the
last thing we want to deal with when
we're doing Windows updates and driver
installs is a random blue screen crash
in the middle of it that opens up a
whole new can of worms we don't want to
deal with so we don't do any
overclocking and that is technically a
memory overclock we don't do any of that
until we are satisfied that our system
is installed and up and running now the
last thing I would do at this point I'm
going to show you because it's very
specific to your particular motherboard
is go to the manufacturer website for
your motherboard and download the latest
drivers for
all of the feature sets so the chipset
drivers the ethernet driver there's a
sound card the sound card driver and if
you've got RGB like an asus motherboard
msi or whatever and you want to control
that RGB or that lighting then you would
download whatever the respective
software is for that or a mystic light
if you're using NZXT you know cam and
all that sort of stuff so there you have
it kind of a longer video but sort of a
little bit of a hand-holding showing you
how to go from a completely built tower
with no operating system to getting the
OS installed on the correct drive how to
get drives to show up that aren't
showing up how to get them formatted how
to get your windows install update or
updates installed how to get your
drivers updated and then how to get your
memory speed up to the speeds that you
actually paid for there's a couple other
utilities that you could download if you
guys want to have some fun that's things
like MSI Afterburner which works with
both AMD and NVIDIA graphics cards we
could play with fan profiles and a
little bit of overclocking safely you're
not gonna break your system or brick or
graphics card through overclocking
through MSI they all have safeguards
which won't let them go too far but
other than that that is pretty much all
there is to it
so tell me what you guys think about
this particular video if you have any
tips and tricks that maybe we didn't
cover or touch upon that you think would
make it easier for new installers or new
builders to get their systems up and
running then comment down below your
best tips and tricks for getting your
brand-new system up and running thanks
for watching guys and if you have any
other suggestions for tutorials like
this and you'd like to see make sure you
comment down in the comments below and
we'll do what we can to try to
accommodate thanks for watching and
we'll see you in the next one